# The Problem to Reach the Frontiers

The breadth of a human mind. Summarized observations and stories on intellectual advancement.

## Content

I saw actors, gamers, streamers, scientists reach the front lines. Fame, well-known people—How did they become who they are? The problem is I never saw what was behind them. I never saw the path they took to get there.

Stephen King, famous writer. In a bookstore I enter and see five of his books, plenty of copies, taking up lots of space. Other authors have one book and maybe a few copies. What makes Stephen King himself, a "Stephen King"? Why does he have more books on a shelf than others?

Dive deeper into his background. As a child, he wrote stories; his parents gave him praise and support. But so what? Many other kids wrote stories and got the same from parents. Stephen King continued to write. He grew up and worked as a journalist. No books, no fiction in sight (maybe). But many other writers worked as journalists too. Something pushed him further, something unique to him. He grew up, he wanted to write a book. A book on writing—he hesitated, what could he write about that would be useful to others? But many other writers must have thought the same! So what separates him from the rest? There is no answer to the question of why he is different. What is it that makes his work different?

Leonhard Euler—I don't know about his life's biography, but he published a lot of research papers. He solved the problem of the bridges of Königsberg. He had to invent graph theory to solve it. Sounds easy? It isn't, and wasn't. Have you ever tried to think of something new? Tried to solve a problem with tools you don't have? You have to invent digging tools to dig a tunnel. This analogy is too trivial to picture a proper description. He was one of the top mathematicians at the time. He contributed to many branches of mathematics. That allowed him to know what tools were available and which weren't. He must have known how to develop new mathematical concepts.

It's hard—what made him go that far? Spend hours inventing a theory and then using that theory to solve a problem. And then, many mathematicians must review his work, and agree and accept that his ideas are true. Why would other mathematicians waste their time reviewing another man's work? See how hard it is? One of the first feelings we experience is distrust and skepticism. Is he good enough? Can he do it? Can I trust him? Why should I review his work? The list goes on.

Leonhard Euler invented the letter symbol "i" for the square root of negative one. But I too can invent a symbol for something in math; everyone would ignore it. However, his ideas were accepted, reviewed, discussed, and more. But in his time, there were thousands of mathematicians and scientists. Many have experienced the same situations he did. Leonhard rose up; he built up everything he was. One among thousands, hundreds of thousands. He stood out, and many failed. Undoubtedly, he worked exceptionally hard. He spent hours refining his craft, studying, reading many books, solving many problems, but so did the others. Yet, his way yielded the results to propel him to become one of the greatest mathematicians ever.

He went blind and got the nickname "Cyclops." He continued to publish even more papers than ever. His clerks helped him with papers, but he had to overcome his sight problems. He had to memorize what he once could use his eyes to see. No answer to the question of why he was different here either.

And Richard Feynman—as a kid, he took apart radios. He would play with wires until the radio worked again. After a while, he would be able to take a radio apart and put it together. He played with a radio and found out about a broadcast of a show an hour earlier than local time. He would learn the content and show off to friends. He knew exactly what was going to happen. They were amazed—how did he do it? He later told them about the trick, then showed them the trick on the radio.

Later, someone's radio broke. Somehow he got called to help fix the radio. A short, skinny child with a big screwdriver in his back pocket. The old man said the radio wasn't working. Feynman took it apart, saw something not connected in it. And he stood and thought for a while. The old man, surprised, asked, "What are you doing? Fix the radio!" Feynman replied: "I am thinking!" Then Feynman came up with an idea of how to make it work again. He changed something inside the radio, put it together, turned it on, and it worked! The old man exclaimed, "He fixes radios by thinking!" The old man went on to tell everyone a story about a young kid who fixes radios by thinking!

But see, they did not know how much he had played with radios. He took them apart, played with them, and learned the ins and outs of them, which allowed him to recognize parts in radios that didn't "feel" right. He had developed a memory of how correctly connected pieces look compared to badly connected pieces. Time spent with radios helped him understand the content of radios. When he would open a new radio, he would see the content of radios and the memories he associated with radios. But no one knew anything about that!

He would play with math problems until he figured them out. Those were puzzles for him; he played with them until he figured them out. He must have developed positive associations with the behavior which reinforced him to take apart radios and figure them out, figure out math problems, algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and later calculus while in primary school.

As he grew, he got into the faculty of physics, at which time he had developed skills in math that made him well known. He would take problems no one could solve, and he would work on them until he solved them. At university, he built a great reputation for being able to solve problems others couldn't—calculus problems. He would play with physics concepts for hours until he understood them, like he did on some nights he couldn't sleep. He conducted experiments with ants in his room, blocking their path and observing their behavior.

He had developed the memory to outwit mathematicians. Mathematicians enjoyed his presence and posed puzzles to him, giving him word problems. He felt like he would play them because he would always win. But they loved giving him harder and harder problems. He had memorized many word problems and would often be correct.

The story goes on as he grew older, and I've only told his story up to the age of 23. After that, he was invited to the Los Alamos atomic bomb project, where he spent great efforts learning to break safes, invent mathematical algorithms for computing logarithms, and more. I have more stories of him than I have written in the text so far.

Before university, he worked as a bartender at a hotel. He played pranks on waitresses, gave a talk on Euler's identity at Los Alamos, was invited to Caltech to teach, rejected an invitation to teach at Princeton (I think), played an important part in "The Thinking Machine" project, invented Feynman diagrams, was known for his teaching prowess, held a talk on computers, won the Nobel Prize for Feynman diagrams (he expressed his view on receiving the Nobel Prize—a must read; he felt it was not very useful/important), and more.

What made him different? At any point in his life, we could reject the questioning and claim he had talent. But if we put talent aside and investigate his life, he did what most others could have done but didn't. Yet there are people who do things as he did, just like he did, but they don't get as far as Feynman. One could argue that success is not the definition of Feynman's achievements.

What was his relationship with his parents? How did his parents' behavior affect Richard Feynman? How did he develop the behavior he had? Can anyone develop behavior like he did? Can we set up a training regimen that makes a person develop such behavior?

We all are exceptionally good at being who we are. It took me the number of years I have, the amount of problems, decisions, and solutions, to be who I am. If one of my parents had been different, I would be different. It is exceptionally difficult for someone to become me. Can we partially use these ideas to develop our psychological processes in a scientific direction? Why would anyone want to develop their thinking process in that direction? See, the more I ask, the fewer answers there are. The fundamental thing is that we can ask more than we can answer.

See, humans are incredibly adaptable. In the Arctic Ocean, in Greenland, they needed food, but due to food scarcity and the availability of poisonous shark, they somehow discovered a method to ferment the shark. The fermented shark's name is Hákarl. Dig a hole, put the shark in the hole, after some time dig it out, cut the shark, and dry it in the wind. The smell is strong and unpleasant. People describe its smell as urine. But it kept them alive; they must have had strong reasons to risk fermenting a poisonous shark and then eating it, especially since the taste and smell are strong and unpleasant. Humans are exceptionally good at survival, incredibly good.

Additionally, there's the story about Ernest Shackleton, whose crew got stuck in the Arctic Ocean in thick ice for a year or so. They then set out to travel by foot. The ship broke due to ice pressure. Snow sleds, dogs, and the crew went on. Some of the places looked impossible to cross using snow sleds. They reached a rock, an island which was almost like a rock. Then Shackleton set out to cross 1.5 km of sea using a boat not meant for such a sea. Once done, he crossed the mountains to reach civilization. Modern people look at the path Shackleton and his crew had traveled and say they don't understand how it was possible. Shackleton's determination is an epic story of human resolve, will, and adaptiveness. Many months after leaving his crew, Shackleton on the ship nearing the island saw his crew. He counted them, and everyone was alive. His whole crew was alive. Incredible.

But many must have died. His crew wasn't the only one. What about the ones we don't know? Behind the most well-known story, there are thousands of stories which are unknown. Shackleton was different, and to know why, we would need a story of his whole life—growing up, his interactions, parents, and more. The same applies to others I have mentioned so far. To know what made them become who they were, we need to know more about their lives, in much greater detail than I have described so far.

Richard Feynman has two books about him: "Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman" and "What Do You Care What Other People Think?" Interestingly, a lady at a university party asked Feynman if he wanted one or the other with his tea. He said both! She replied, "Surely you must be joking, Mr. Feynman!" To which he thought, "I must have made a social error," which I found amusing. His thought response was interesting, and it stuck with me; actually, the whole 60% of the book I've read stuck with me.

And I have more stories on: Archimedes, Carl Friedrich Gauss, Leonhard Euler, Pythagoras, the discoverer of irrational numbers thrown to sea for heresy (irrational number), Newton, Leibniz, Da Vinci, Nikola Tesla, Srinivasa Ramanujan, the discoverer of plastic, Alan Turing, Werner Heisenberg, Albert Einstein, Kurt Gödel, Paul Erdős, Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak, Linus Torvalds, Bjarne Stroustrup, Ken Thompson, Dennis Ritchie, Mozart, British cab drivers' test, Paganini, Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos, Warren Buffett, Galois, Agoge (Sparta), Geoffrey Hinton, Paul Dirac, and others I can't remember.

When researching positive geniuses who contributed to society, it is good to know negative aspects of human adaptability. Any of the great scientists could have developed pathological behavior but didn't. Therefore, the absolute dark side—the pathological side of human nature—must be researched as well: Feral child Genie (negative story, pathological state of human mind), Albert Fish (pathological story).

## References

[References are located here.](./references.md)
